Lilliana Robinson: This is a little bit of our bread and butter as a team.
Lilliana Robinson: So we give you some more context, and like
Lilliana Robinson: as we go. but I think there were a few of you who went to. I think there was a customer discovery
Lilliana Robinson: session this week at Founder Con. Does anything. Anybody go?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So I want to hear from you all what you learned? I talked to Duncan already. What's that?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, he's going to see him
Lilliana Robinson:  trying to do lots of them.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? And and so did that inform or reframe your process in any way.
Lilliana Robinson:  didn't print it.
Lilliana Robinson: And then.
Lilliana Robinson: okay, that's cool. Yeah, Ben.
Lilliana Robinson: custom research is like.
Lilliana Robinson: okay. So so Ben, for you and Rasha in particular.
Lilliana Robinson: you all have been through a little bit of what we're gonna cover right right now. So you kinda know what we're getting at. Cause, some of you in this room have gone through the Chicago screening process which includes this framework that we're gonna talk about. So it might be more of a refresher and a revisitation. But I need you all's help
Lilliana Robinson: and weaving in what you learn from that session, and others with kind of the approach that we teach and talk about here. So cause I get the sense that the the approach that they're taking and teaching you all is slightly later in the journey. Then, where I'm I think I want to pull everyone back to for this beginning of these sessions. Does that make sense? Okay, yeah, that's what I'm that's what we're talking about today. Yeah, are you familiar with it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Oh, wow! I've actually applied it twice. I'm so happy that I'm gonna do that with the city because it was my.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is this is the refresher, and Bob's one of my best friends.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, good. Good no, Duncan. And then you were, gonna
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, it's just refreshing and give us something to ditch stuff
Lilliana Robinson: for them.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, focus.
Lilliana Robinson: Slight second was around
Lilliana Robinson: into all my customers.
Let's see.
Lilliana Robinson: And really, we don't need to step back. Yeah. but not to go in independence.
Lilliana Robinson: never closing questions.
It's just
Lilliana Robinson: so. And just to remember
Lilliana Robinson: the insight on the struggle
Lilliana Robinson: you were thinking from a staff journey.
then
Lilliana Robinson: trying to
Lilliana Robinson: down on today's
patience and
Lilliana Robinson: great. Thank you, Duncan. So what I'll what I'll say about this time. So we have 3 parts. 4 parts. So there's there's 4 sessions that we have scheduled in the next week or 2 to go through all of this with you all. So this first one is actually kind of chilled.
Lilliana Robinson: So we're gonna introduce some stuff. Kinda talk about a few of the ideas at a high level. But this is a a way of thinking about your business and the customers that you're serving in the demand side of your business that we take pride in ingraining in every company that we work with every company that we invest in.
Lilliana Robinson: So just know that that is, the intent is to give you all another
Lilliana Robinson: framework that will be helpful throughout the entire life cycle of your organization. Not just now as a startup trying to figure things that our product market fit. Get your next in, you know, investment round done. That's not the point of this. The point of this is to get you thinking in a way that would allow you to utilize this in perpetuity.
Lilliana Robinson: right? Because what we learn is that the companies that we've worked with who don't take this seriously now
Lilliana Robinson: end up regretting it later, and they end up spending a lot more money working with people to help them learn how to do this when they're at a later stage, and they have to play a lot of catch up. So I'm trying to like, save all the companies. I work with a lot of time, money, and effort
Lilliana Robinson: by almost like
Lilliana Robinson: premeditatively giving you this foundation.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's the intent. Alright. So the question Liliana framed is, what does customer discovery mean to you? I've already called out the people who I've introduced some of this thinking, too, for the rest of you. How have you gone about doing what we call customer discovery? And that could be a lot of things. Max.
Lilliana Robinson: this update.
Lilliana Robinson: I have the information.
Lilliana Robinson:  I'm gonna try it.
Lilliana Robinson: So yeah, but got it. So when you say you did that. Can you tell me more about what your approach was?
Lilliana Robinson: So I guess in the end.
Lilliana Robinson: customer.
Lilliana Robinson: We we separated sales
Lilliana Robinson: my network.
Lilliana Robinson: Hmm!
Lilliana Robinson: Not even telling them.
Lilliana Robinson: I really like what you said there. So, Matt Max, with I'm hearing you right separated sales from customer discovery, because it's so tempting for all of us when you're talking to potential customers to sell. And so it's very important to have the discipline to split those 2 activities up. Now, that doesn't mean you can't sell to the person you're talking to. You should just probably do it in a separate conversation.
Lilliana Robinson: right? Because if you're really focused on them and understanding in their story. It's a whole different ball game than when you're actually trying to present a solution to them that could be an alternative to whatever they're struggling with.
Lilliana Robinson: Good anyone else. Yeah, medicine. When we first were trying to understand how a little bit of the supply side of our marketplace with creators.
Lilliana Robinson: We were going to Instagram accounts for college kids that were run by college, but not the official lowest thinking, like
Lilliana Robinson: Ohio state plus 2, 25, where they're all like being missing, and it would be like $75 post on an Instagram story
Lilliana Robinson: service for us. And so they would like to click like.
Lilliana Robinson: would you sign up for something like this? If you do want to start something like this like, what would be your number one goal
Lilliana Robinson: if you're interested in learning more about your email here. And that was probably our most successful
Lilliana Robinson: way into that.
Lilliana Robinson: because you're able to give them a.
Lilliana Robinson: But then in person, those anecdotes
Lilliana Robinson: interesting.
But it's just.
Lilliana Robinson: It makes perfect sense. And I'm super excited to talk to you more about this, because that struggle is exactly what we
Lilliana Robinson: try our best to thread. The needle is the the allure of data points and lots of data. Significant data. Right? 3,500 people that's really helpful filling out surveys same question across. That's helpful, right? But then, you say these anecdotes provide these other insights.
Lilliana Robinson: So all right, we'll we'll talk more about that. But I see some more hands in the back yeah
Lilliana Robinson: question. Oh, there's a question on here. Okay, real quick. Sorry. We'll take one from the from the folks remote. Can you repeat the gist of what other founders are saying? It's hard. Oh, yeah, so we'll repeat the gist going forward. I'm so sorry I didn't repeat that. So we got you kind of, repeated Madison. So I repeated Madison's. But let's see the next one. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: shouldn't say like
Lilliana Robinson: listening
Lilliana Robinson: so hopefully, I really don't know this question, even these asking questions about
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, right? And then.
Lilliana Robinson: if they're in the call, like
Lilliana Robinson: they slowly, and most of the time we just ask things
I'm doing this.
Lilliana Robinson: Got it. So what aria saying is is this is about listing and asking questions. That's the comment that was made. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: that's how I see it.
Lilliana Robinson: Really, in addition to the
Lilliana Robinson: what's underneath what we're saying
Lilliana Robinson: sometimes.
Lilliana Robinson:  what? When got it. Which I think.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is about like the psychological profile of understanding someone. And the questions underneath, great yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: More community.
Ask the question.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's see, open any questions, super. either out of them.
Lilliana Robinson: I think the most important question.
We're done here.
Lilliana Robinson: Oriental's childism.
Lilliana Robinson: and that's the problem.
Lilliana Robinson: Got it? So Alex is talking about what the hardest part is is for the customer of achieve achieving their goal. And trying to get to the bottom of that Yup.
Lilliana Robinson: I think.
Lilliana Robinson: like, where?
Lilliana Robinson: Maybe.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. And if I if I wanna make sure I understand you fully, it's not just a data approach. It's also making sure that you're choosing where to start with. Who to talk to? Right? Who do we talk to in the first place? And why? Because there's a lot of people we could talk to. So we have to like, get a little bit more specific and narrow down where we want to start. That's great. Alex.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: had a target of like 3 different profiles that we wanted to reach out.
Lilliana Robinson: And what we made sure indeed, was that if but we were trying to discover what's their business of paying home.
Lilliana Robinson: and then then we will validate him by asking about having paid any solution. But because, if they said, my understanding was this, but then they would not necessarily be researching for solution.
Lilliana Robinson: So what they were telling you in the conversation wasn't necessarily the pain point that you were observing in their behavior. Right? II hear that. That's that's why we're here. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: sorry. What's that? You sell it to developers? Yeah, super hard. Yeah, right?
Lilliana Robinson: I try to understand. Almost as long as I'm
Lilliana Robinson: we'll see. Then it's a simple class. Yes, so he's talking about sympathizing with developers who are notoriously difficult to to sell to
Lilliana Robinson: fine. And then so good.
Lilliana Robinson: There's one
Lilliana Robinson: who are launching
Lilliana Robinson: each stage of the.
Lilliana Robinson: but also because for the customers.
Lilliana Robinson: when they're customers. Right? Answers
Lilliana Robinson: leading to this.
Lilliana Robinson: this. Yeah, this idea of what it's the the names are. gives you this deeper understanding of opening, taking this policy
Lilliana Robinson: structured approach to make sure you're talking to customers.
Lilliana Robinson: So so one was saying that he interviewed over 200 customers before he launched his business. And
Lilliana Robinson: So you know, I'll ask you to re- relay as I go any other questions here. So, Sylvia, yeah, well, I was going to say, in addition to the structure process, something that we've done a lot of customers hanging out where and we've learned so much
Lilliana Robinson: that way. And we also learned where we do sort of like interject with, Hey, have you tried this? You know that it's a lot more expensive because people are going there?
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, so th the there's a phrase for this in in Japanese genchi and bootsu, which is, get out of the building. And that's that's the same like lean startup like framework. It's a whole notion is, go see your customers in their context where they are right. Genchi can bootsu.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep.
Lilliana Robinson: I just heard a couple of things like that said.
Lilliana Robinson: find out what people say. relationship very different.
Lilliana Robinson: And I think you mentioned
Lilliana Robinson: so I think that's kind of figured that out. It's the way to watch instead of like
Lilliana Robinson: both are valid. Did you just have to know the right approach to taking the right questions to ask in a safe environment that allows them to be honest and vulnerable right and not not selling helps with that. So Matt is saying, this is kind of related to user interviews from like a tech perspective, and how their life experiences
Lilliana Robinson: inter kind of go into how they interact with a certain user interface. And that's very valid the jobs to be done. We'll kind of get into that. And the difference between a user interview and kind of where this is and how objectivity
Lilliana Robinson: roots from not selling while you're doing customer discovery. So whoever was back there and like started to kind of bifurcate the 2 that helps
Lilliana Robinson: looking for the patterns and talking to people rather than going so deep that you're in a unique space with every single person that you're talking to. So with that being said, how did you
Lilliana Robinson: abstract towards those patterns as you were having those conversations?
See this?
Lilliana Robinson: So they the response was, taking notes over time and then identifying the patterns and removing the data points that were more unique or outliers.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright? Well, cool. Oh, yeah. One more. Let's go
Lilliana Robinson: a minor league. And actually, it's pretty, Major. I just had a call 1040 Pm. With customer manufacturing
Lilliana Robinson: that we did an assessment for
Lilliana Robinson: over 2 years ago, and and we give them a report he's like, Oh, this is better than I expected. He gave us a quote. It's on our website. He then hired an It manager, and the guy froze us out. So we like just everything stopped. And I
Lilliana Robinson: recently checked out that it manager no longer works there. I saw it on Linkedin. I'm like, Okay, and this is, this is, I don't know. This is coincidence or not. But I filled out the homework that was due today, like, Oh, what are my team? This is like something that's sort of been lingering out there like I net had a good relationship with the CEO. I wanted to go back and like, try to rekindle the flame.
Lilliana Robinson: And I got him on the phone. And he's like, Yeah, Joe, you know how we hot? We did hop, fire the old guy, and we actually are. Now we just put out an offer to hire a new guy. He comes on and and gets his feet wet and gets a custom.
Lilliana Robinson: and I'm in my mind thinking cause I had an agenda. I wanted to like, sign this guy up and get some get it going before demobing, and and I in the past would have
Lilliana Robinson: sort of been bull headed and kind of pushed, but I listened, and he is part of a 60 company like conglomerate. They're all manufacturing companies, and he said that he would make an introduction to the guy who runs the parent company, and we could pitch to him hopefully, you know, in the next week or 2
Lilliana Robinson: that's awesome. That was 1040 Pm. Last night. Oh, am. Oh, just literally just happened. Oh, snap alright!
Lilliana Robinson: Mariana has a question on here.
Lilliana Robinson: I was saying. When you turn the computer we can hear a lot better
Lilliana Robinson: get excited about somebody who identifies and believes the problem that you see. But
Lilliana Robinson: listening further, what part of that talk are they going to pay for
Lilliana Robinson: from business perspective? Are they gonna hire and handle that probably internally, like Joe's saying.
Lilliana Robinson: Where is it that your business can actually sort of fit in. What do they use to pace? Yeah. So people can identify our problem and believe in it. But
Lilliana Robinson: do they care about to prioritize enough to actually pay for it
Lilliana Robinson: couldn't agree more. The phrase that I like to use to kind of summarize what I think I'm hearing is, are you willing to pay for progress.
Lilliana Robinson: Are you willing to pay for progress? Because there's a big difference in that? And being dissatisfied with something, or being annoyed by something right or having a problem with something. But your behavior has yet to change right then.
Lilliana Robinson: So together.
Lilliana Robinson: you know, like one, and they don't want it. But like, they're still that kind of that's really interesting. Framing. You just said customer.
Lilliana Robinson: It sounds like, they're not a customer. Yeah, they're prospect. Right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So there's 2 possibilities, and we'll talk about all of them forever, I promise. But one is
Lilliana Robinson: they're not ready. and it's not the time for them to say yes to you.
Lilliana Robinson: The other one is, we haven't done our job yet of sharing enough about what it is we have for them that could be helpful to them for them to say yes.
Lilliana Robinson: it could be both. It could be one or the other might be something I'm not thinking of in those 2 buckets, but it's usually one of those 2 things
Lilliana Robinson: cool. All right, let's let's get into it. This is great. So just so, you all know like this is probably one of my favorite things in the whole world, because it's more than just business.
Lilliana Robinson: This is understanding people and our behaviors right? Because all of you do things throughout your lives. To quote, make progress in general. Right? You spend money on things, you spend your time on things. You're all entrepreneurs. You're building businesses. There's reasons why you're doing everything you do in your life, and this can get so deep and esoteric that it will make you question
Lilliana Robinson: a lot. Okay? So I'll try my best to keep it ground level grounded and focused on business and like understanding your customer. But just know this way and level of thinking is, I've seen it directly. Be beneficial to a lot of people's like greater lives.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's what we're here to talk to y'all about so as far as the finding success.
Lilliana Robinson: my goal is to explain how this framework that we call jobs to be done will help you with customer discovery. The very notion of this very trophy word called innovation and drive your decision making across a variety of sectors. We're talking sales and marketing. We're talking personnel and vision setting for your business. And we're talking
Lilliana Robinson: sales, marketing.
Lilliana Robinson: prototyping and prototyping and product development. That's the other. So yeah, go ahead. So you're welcome to interrupt and just ask questions. Neil and I, Co. Teach a class a course at Northwestern and entrepreneurship. And we did this lecture last week for them, and it was a really fruitful discussion because of how many questions we got during. So I invite you guys, if if you're comfortable you can just shout out. Otherwise you can just raise your hand, people on zoom as well. Kate's managing the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: so let's have a discussion. We have ample time to really make sure that everybody is kind of getting this driven home. And the reason we welcome that is because Liliana was actually a student in my class almost 5 or 6 years ago, and I was the type when I was a student in school to sit in the front have done all the reading, and I have like 10 questions. And the professor starts to ignore because I'm so annoying. So I just know, like, I actually like people that wanna like
Lilliana Robinson: challenge, question, disagree, get into it like I wanna meet you on the mat and like, see if these are actually good ideas cause it's not perfect. And what's great about entrepreneurship is that there's no one single right answer.
Lilliana Robinson: So just know that I'm open to lots of ways of thinking here, but I will have a strong opinion. But hold it loosely.
Lilliana Robinson: That's how I roll with this stuff. Alright. Yeah, there's also no dumb questions. So in your head if you're like. I should know this, but I kinda don't know what he's saying, or I don't know what acronym they use. I don't know what, Jarvan. They're referring to. Someone else probably feels the same way. So do them the favor of raising your hand and asking that question cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright. So jobs to be done. So we actually added this, maybe like 2 programs ago, we used to not explain the re like the feedback that people got about jobs to be done, and we would just kind of send you to the wolves. And we realized it's better for you guys to know that one of the main criticisms consistently until it may be last program. Because I think we actually
Lilliana Robinson: the main criticisms from mentor madness are that the cus, the companies we put through do not know their customers. So I've pulled actual feedback that, like we write down during the debriefs of what mentors have said, let me underline this before she does it. Well, just to set the stage.
Lilliana Robinson: You just heard from our alumni that the most valuable thing out of techs are the mentors and connections, and you probably heard that from other people this week. that's the number. One thing we have, and when we pull out our best and brightest mentors for you all to meet.
Lilliana Robinson: You show up, and you don't have your stuff together because you don't know how to talk about your business and they go.
Lilliana Robinson: They don't get it like, why are we even here? How did they get into tech stars without understanding this? Right? So those are the types of things that people will say when you go into these conversations. And originally, when we were running techstar, Chicago
Lilliana Robinson: mentor, madness was like day. One like right in the beginning, is a few days in you just got dropped into mentor madness. I think next week you're get meeting the top 40 mentors in our program. So we push that back by 2 weeks. So you don't start by 3 weeks. So it's like week 4. So week 4 is when it starts for you. Wanna guess why?
Lilliana Robinson: Why are we giving you 3 weeks before we start? Max?
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry? Well, that yeah. But, Max, go ahead.
Lilliana Robinson: So you're ready. So you're ready? That's exactly right. Yeah. So II it was almost like we almost feel like we disappointed our founders by not doing the work to prepare them for those conversations properly. But it was a benefit to techstars, though, because if you slam people with really brilliant people in the beginning you go. Oh, man, I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't know anything like it's crazy, but we think there's a happy medium between the 2, because that'll still happen. It'll still happen. But you'll be a little further along, and you'll have a little bit more.
Lilliana Robinson: Forgive me for the analogy, but your gun's loaded because
Lilliana Robinson: you will have conviction and opinions about the people you actually spoke to, because mentors, unfortunately, are really smart people. They're really successful, and they're gonna see what you're doing. And they're gonna think they know what you need to do. So when they come in there and they go, you've got this all wrong. You need to do this, this, that, and the other. And this is this is your actual customer segment, or this is how you actually need to target the sales channel. Sometimes they're right.
Lilliana Robinson: Other times they're giving you really, really bad advice with strong conviction. And you need to be able to sort between those 2 things. And the way that you have the justifying factor is the insights from your actual customers or potential customers. Because when they tell you something you're like. But that's not what I'm hearing
Lilliana Robinson: from these people I spoke to. So either I need to talk to different people, or we need to figure out whether your instincts about what's right compares to the data that I've already collected about the people that I think I want to sell to
Lilliana Robinson: right. Does that make sense?
Lilliana Robinson: You raise your hand? You flip it
for that? Thanks.
Lilliana Robinson: It's that is just with the 4 partners. There's nothing to prepare for for that. It's very casual. I didn't use the word madness on that. I call the ebay Mentor Day, because, it's different. The 4 partners just want to meet our ebay company. So you guys will just rotate with them. They take more than companies. You guys will meet the partners at the dinner on Monday night. Yeah. So and to elaborate on that.
Lilliana Robinson: the ebay folks are really excited to meet. Y'all, they're flying in from Europe to come here. They're really excited. They're just chomping at the bit to meet y'all cause they helped us choose the you know, the ebay founders, and I'm I'm excited for there to be cross pollination, too. So just so, you know, for the other folks in the room that aren't working with the ebay program.
Lilliana Robinson: I've already introduced them to other tech stars companies.
Lilliana Robinson: So they're not just like it's, it's it's they're 100% focus on the core class. But like they're, they're just excited to be a part of tech start. Yeah, in general. And they're down. They're like they're they're with everybody here. And they're they know that we're running these 2 programs together. They know that you all are cross-pollinating, and they think it's really cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Anyone else. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: it'll be fine. Just know that.
Lilliana Robinson: they were in your screening committee the people were talking about. We're in your screening committee. They know you. They are excited about all. So they're not. Yeah. They're not here to give you a hard time. They're here to help. You see, I see them as more on our team that we probably shouldn't even call it, Mentor Day.
Lilliana Robinson: I see them as more of our team. We see the mentors almost like the exterior people, and we prepare you to meet with them. That's right cool, very good. So these men, these meetings that you're going to read this feedback from, I assume both parties probably consider the meeting that they had a wash because they didn't do this work upfront. So the whole time the mentor is not receiving the problem. They don't understand it. The company cannot receive the feedback from the mentor because we're stuck on basic
Lilliana Robinson: stuff. So that's why we get through all of that together now, so that you guys can really take full advantage into 3 weeks. So use storytelling of current customers, experiences to help sell the product.
Lilliana Robinson: start giving me stories about the customers and who they are and why they're a customer. Specific stories with names, situations, backgrounds, and circumstances. And this is being shared in the debriefs that I have with the mentors after they've met with you all.
Lilliana Robinson: So these are the quotes from those sessions. Don't chase your customers, understand your customers.
Lilliana Robinson: Focus less on sales until you know your customers. This is a big one. A lot of people came in like coming in hot. They wanna do sales. They're. How do I sell? How do I sell? Slow your roll? You don't know who you're selling to? And then they weren't really able to get anything out of that.
Lilliana Robinson: Stop building out technology focus on the business. This is the biggest one, even more than sales. Well, I think this is the first time we're sharing this in the context of being in the Bay Area and Silicon Valley, where I think the traditional line of thought is
Lilliana Robinson: build a great product, you know, and and iterate through that great product. And all of a sudden, over time, you'll find the right customers
Lilliana Robinson: that actually works. Yeah, the problem is that you need enough time and shots on goal to iterate enough to get to a point where, if someone's gonna buy.
Lilliana Robinson: that's not necessarily what we're the best at teaching. So if what you're good at is just building product all day long until something works great. But most of us don't have
Lilliana Robinson: years to do that and take that risk time will run out. Money will run out. Opportunity windows will close if you don't have a more focused effort for who you want to start talking to and selling to first
Lilliana Robinson: stop thinking of company as a technology and start thinking about it as a problem. You're solving, too. Obsessed with product. We had a lot of founders go into these mentor meetings explaining the product all the bells and whistles, features they're building out how great it is. They don't care how great you think it is. Nobody does unless you're gonna be the customer.
Lilliana Robinson: The customers are. What matters. So stop thinking about yourself as a product. Think of it as a problem you're solving. Ferona did a really good job alluding to this on the alumni panel. Yeah, the other way that a lot of Vcs will reframe when they're evaluating or like we're when we're discussing a company after we've had a meeting.
Lilliana Robinson: Is is this a feature, or is this a business, because a lot of the founders talk about their their app
Lilliana Robinson: like. It's so cool. And it does this cool thing. And it's so disruptive. It's so interesting. And they built this cool tech. But like, is it a feature of business like, should this just join another business? That's actually a business. And like this can be a component of that, so they'll immediately put you in a bucket that you don't wanna be in because you're not showing them the bigger picture of how you're envisioning product market fit with real customers at scale.
Lilliana Robinson: So you have to talk about the customer just as much.
Lilliana Robinson: So, maybe because the storytelling is more around the portal. They start because what happens to me said they start asking them like they they all.
Lilliana Robinson: So then it's over and getting the data and how to support. And today I want to get out of the because I know we're working on a product. And then the features may be gonna change.
Lilliana Robinson: But somehow I get drag into the I mean question starts. And you know.
Lilliana Robinson: literally like, Can you show me? Do you have a demo? I want to see
Lilliana Robinson: Umhm. And again, that's great.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. But at this stage
Lilliana Robinson: no, it's such a good question. I have a quick response to that specifically, So
Lilliana Robinson: one advice I have for those of you having investor conversations where they're either obsessed with product questioning your product or want to focus on your product is, meet them where they are. Talk about what you have.
Lilliana Robinson: but through the lens of your customer. Success. The mistake that people make is they they click around on stuff, and they show you what it does. But they don't show you what it does in the context of the benefit of the actual user or consumer. So so long as you're continuing to focus on the benefit to the customer, I'll show you this product, Demo. I'll show you how this feature works. But let me tell you a story about who you are, who you'd have to be, or what you might be struggling with for this to matter.
Lilliana Robinson: Because one thing that's unfortunate with a lot of Vcs myself included, is that we think we know a lot. That's why we do what we do. So because of that, we'll look at it, and we'll just oh, okay, yeah, I get it. Oh, I see where this or I've seen this before. But don't let them write you off because you have insights that they don't cause. You spent more time talking to customers that they don't spend any time doing, cause. That's not their job. Their job is to trust you to do that. So you have to educate them and bring them along the way as you go.
Lilliana Robinson: That's what we're here to teach you how to do. So I have one other thing I want to say before we go through a few more of these and then get into it. Another way. That like caused me to double down on this, because I think
Lilliana Robinson: 7 8 programs ago, when we first started. I remember when Liliana was an associate here, and I had my team, and I was like, I think I wanna teach them jobs to be done like, I'm just gonna like, yeah, I was very hesitant, cause I was super like I was like, I don't. I'm a I'm a new Md, I'm a new kid on the block like, I don't know what I'm doing like I've never done this before, like, let's figure it out. And so I just kind of like. Let me introduce it to him and see if they like it.
Lilliana Robinson: Then I heard David Cohen
Lilliana Robinson: talk about one of you all ask cause you're gonna meet all of them in like a group welcome session, or they already did. Maybe you have a welcome call. You haven't had it yet. You haven't had your welcome call. Okay? So you're gonna have a welcome call with David Cohen in my office.
Lilliana Robinson: and you're gonna have the chance to talk to them and ask them questions as a group.
Lilliana Robinson: And one of you all in a previous program? Asked David. What's like the most like? What's the top tier thing that separates the big wins and the most successful companies out of techs from everyone else.
Lilliana Robinson: And he sat there and he thought about it, and he goes
Lilliana Robinson: a healthy obsession with customer success.
Lilliana Robinson: and I never forgotten that, because
Lilliana Robinson: I couldn't agree more
Lilliana Robinson: so. The the the true differentiating factor for you all is going to be
Lilliana Robinson: understanding and demonstrating
Lilliana Robinson: how in tune you are with the long term outlook of your business.
Lilliana Robinson: making people's lives better in the long haul like that's it like. So whoever you're serving now imagine that with more commas and more zeros, at a much greater scale, either throughout the country, throughout the globe or elsewhere, and get excited about the prospect of reaching that level of impact with your business.
Lilliana Robinson: So that healthy obsession
Lilliana Robinson: is what we're trying to activate here, and we're starting with like a very small group of customers for most of you.
Lilliana Robinson: So I just wanted to emphasize that point. Hit the breaks on the tech deck work on the business and storytelling immediately before continuing work on the tech.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of us have outsourced tech before this was in reference to a company that was currently outsourcing tech. Losing a lot of money was com committed to finishing this version that they were building out, but they had no direction for it. They couldn't tell us why they were building that. They were just convinced that if they finished it they could ship the product start making money.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? So we're not.
Lilliana Robinson: So yeah, specifically about things. The marketing. So like.
Lilliana Robinson: there are some people
Lilliana Robinson: like, Oh, if I build this, it's gonna work, then they're gonna do it. But if you already have a clear like, if if you're bleeding, you know, do some triage, take care of yourself. But and you can tell if a customer is dire, and they really just need up a patch or a plug.
Lilliana Robinson: Right? That's what it sounds like you're doing, which is different. I think, what we're talking about with this. Yeah, sometimes these people don't have customers yet. So they're like trying to build a product to ship and then start getting customers. Another one is maybe they have a makeshift product that has customers like a squarespace site or shopify, and they're trying to build out a whole version. That is, you know, tech stack
Lilliana Robinson: doesn't work as well when you don't have a direction, use this crappy version you have, and stop worrying about that until you know what you want to build, or else you're wasting 5 figures.
Lilliana Robinson: one looking for record
Lilliana Robinson: when the check clears. That's interesting. Any other thoughts when they're asking for it.
Lilliana Robinson: When you can't, when you you're kind of like, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: willing to pay for it signs.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, when it's real. Okay, okay? Those are all true. But I guess there's a big. There's a quantum leap
Lilliana Robinson: from getting the insights and having the interviews to having the customer committed right? And the whole point of this program is help you guys close that gap for the people you want. So my answer to you is that
Lilliana Robinson: you're gonna feel it
Lilliana Robinson: like you're gonna feel it. It's gonna be so strong. You're gonna go like, wait a second. I don't need to talk to anyone anymore. I've done it like like, it's gonna it's gonna be bursting out of you because the insights are gonna be so strong like you almost don't need to talk to anyone anymore, because once you get to a point where you've done this right enough, and we'll talk about that looks like how to do it. How many times
Lilliana Robinson: you will. It'll be creepy because you'll start to predict what they're gonna say.
Lilliana Robinson: you'll go. Okay. II know what's coming next. So then, all of a sudden, you've done 1520 conversations and interviews with the right customer, and you got it dialed in, and now you can forecast
Lilliana Robinson: what their pay points are, what's resisting them from saying yes, and what you would need to say to get them over the line. So once you have that level of mastery of your customer and what they need, and who they are, and whether they're the right customer or not. In the first place, like you. Almost. It's it's almost like you have like a like in video games. They have this thing on the back end called God Mode, where you can like manipulate anything going on in the game. That's kinda how it feels when you get to the point of insights that we're talking about.
Lilliana Robinson: It's fun. So maybe the answer is when you fully and thoroughly understand the job. And we're gonna get into what that means.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. I think there are a couple more sharpen the story. Didn't talk about the customer or product in his intro. That's a problem.
Lilliana Robinson: This has helped our past companies succeed, but many of our past companies would have benefited from learning this. So, like Neil alluded to, it wasn't always a part of the curriculum it was an opt in, and the ones who did opt in are doing credibly. Well, there are others like, Well, yeah, so this is so I, this is, I talk about this company a lot cause, I think, in my portfolio it's the most valuable right now, like, objectively, they raise a series B, they're worth over 100 million dollars. They're making
2.5 million a month, maybe 3 million. Now, like they're killing it. They're doing great.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, nutrisance, continuous glucose monitors. You guys know that some of. You know that Cgm's. So they built tech for Cgm's, but they commercialized it for everyday consumers rather than people just who are diabetic patients. So it changed a lot of people's lives, help a lot of people lose weight. A lot of people change their health and turn around. Saves people's lives. That kind of thing. So really really powerful company. But they were one of the very first investments I ever made
Lilliana Robinson: 4 years ago. And back then they were just under twentyk, Mrr. Now they're 2.5 million, which is great. But they were at 20 Kmr.
Lilliana Robinson: And they were skipping sessions like this.
Lilliana Robinson: They were like, where you guys at like, come on, what are you doing? What was okay about? It was the fact that they were so busy selling.
Lilliana Robinson: They're they were packaging their boxes for customers. They were getting the Cgm. Shipped in. They had our associates helping them pack the boxes, and they were mailing them off to their customers all the time. So that was actually one of those moments where I was like, alright like, it's cool, like, I understand. Like you guys are selling. I'm gonna give you clearance.
Lilliana Robinson: However, let me tell you
Lilliana Robinson: the framework that we teach with this jobs to be done thing. There's people who do this work at scale for much larger businesses. We're doing it for startups, and I'll tell you more about why and how. But this framework and this jobs to be done. Thing was invented
Lilliana Robinson: for like massive corporations. So it started off with, like Mcdonald's, and like Apple and Ford, like the big companies and the big brands. This is where it came out of. and
Lilliana Robinson: like a session with the experts on this thing, like a couple weeks of work or support around a research project will run you starting baseline. 6 figures
Lilliana Robinson: right? It's gonna cost you a couple $100,000 to get the people to come in and do this kind of work.
Lilliana Robinson:  that's that's what they have to pay. Now to get the help from these people that I introduced them to in program who are willing to help them for free back then. But now they gotta pay them to help them. Now. Okay, so I'm just trying to give you a little bit of context like they can afford it, cause they're doing really well, but not all of you will be able to afford this, so might as well build it in now.
Lilliana Robinson: when you can like, have access to it, and we can introduce you to these people because we know them, because I learned from them.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's my nutrition example. Yeah. So there's a few other. I mean, there's like, there's thousands of companies that are successful. They do this, but these are ones that I know specifically because I know the people who did the projects and applied this framework in these contexts. Specifically, this one. I was literally in the room as we did it with but also intercom to. We'll talk a lot about this one. Yeah. And and we'll talk about all these other ones, too. But we have one in the room. Yeah, where's Ferona?
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, there you are! Get up here, Verona.
Lilliana Robinson: So we asked Verona. She alluded to it during the alumni panel that she applied jobs to be done. We were thoroughly impressed with Ferona's approach. She was introduced to it, I think, originally at Northwestern, and then reintroduced to it through us. Right? So can you speak super loudly.
Lilliana Robinson: Messaging wasn't working at all. So I started the company based on personal experience, providing my parents has anyone done that before? They always
Lilliana Robinson: keep your hands up if you had a great time? Yeah. So here's the thing. So we the the initial messaging that we started off was like, Oh, tech support. So knowing is, you don't want to have you know, phone calls to Mom to to just
Lilliana Robinson: navigate facetime, right? And so that's why we started. And it failed completely. And we didn't know why until we did Jtv. They learned that our customers are the ones that have great relationships with their parents, and therefore they wanna remove the tech support from their conversations. They? They already have other topics to talk about. And so when we talk about like how our mom can be annoying, it doesn't resonate with them at all. And so, if anything, we ended up attracting a lot of
Lilliana Robinson: kind of push back from people who understand the message, but find it just like, well, that's how I connect with my parents. So I don't want to pay you for for taking that away. And from the older adult side they're like, are you trying to outsource the love that my son is giving me? So it wasn't like there was a lot of those that we didn't understand until Jtvd.
Lilliana Robinson: And the second part is what we were competing with, which, I think, is one of the
Lilliana Robinson: most fascinating part of Jtvd. We thought, we're competing with like genius bar. That's why we started genie spar for senior living or a gee squad.
Lilliana Robinson: But we were first of all, we were competing with nothing which is very hard to compete with, and the analogy that we have from our customers is that they see us almost equivalent to a personal trainer as opposed to the technician.
Lilliana Robinson: So they want to see the same person over and over again. They want to build that relationship. It's like a therapy as opposed to a tech support. So when when we want to implement the business model of like a task rabbit or like an Uber for tech support, it didn't work, because they don't want to see a random guy every every time they want to see the same person. So it's more like.
Lilliana Robinson: I guess, better help or something like, you know, therapy related. And so I don't know if you guys are going to cover it. But I think.
Lilliana Robinson: like some of the interesting examples of competition is that I think, Bob did it with one of the church, like Christian Dominic denomination, to understand why people are leaving churches, and they learn that they are competing with like gyms like soulcycle and stuff like that which you didn't think, and the like. Milky Way.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, no. Well, I mean. The crossfit and church example is a really good one. I remember when Bob was doing that research, and he shared it with me, too, at the time. We're talking about Bob Messin, one of the co-creators of the framework. Who will you all will meet at some point? So. But with that example. Cause I think you go across fit right? And so the thing is is what he was when he was actually doing these interviews. He realized, like.
Lilliana Robinson: wow! People will like when he actually figured out how people are spending their time.
Lilliana Robinson: They stopped going to church, and they started going to the gym because they were hiring those for the same thing for community. And it was like it was like you would never think on the surface that those 2 things would be in competition, but they, in fact, were for so many people for that reason.
Lilliana Robinson: And there's similar insights that each of you have with your respective businesses that we might be able to help you uncover. And it's a lot of fun to go explore and figure that out. And, Ferona, I don't know when the insights you just shared came about. But I'm curious to know among the ones you just shared about, near
Lilliana Robinson: which ones came from your revisiting of Jtvd when you joined the Chicago program compared to what you had done prior. actually, I visit. So as the
Lilliana Robinson: I cannot say the product that gonna that's gonna come out of this is you're going to write the Y before the Y. And so in the middle of doing the pivot, I actually went back to the wire before the Y article that I wrote myself that I had forgotten entirely, and I was like, Well, this is this is so good, still good, still good. So I know now that people, because they treated almost a good
Lilliana Robinson: trainer or something else. If you think of like virtual trainers
Lilliana Robinson: there's typically a triggering moment. Where, like you look at the mirror and you feel fat person, for instance, or like you injured yourself. And then you okay, I need to start working out.
Lilliana Robinson: That is essential for our business, because, like no one's really thinking about and pondering is like, Oh, I'm better at math books like no one, no one does that. And so now we're dialing down scams, because that's the equivalent of the injury that you get when you get a personal trainer. So that's one of the one of the way you're saying is unlocking other competitors, other messaging and really understanding the problem
Lilliana Robinson: and maybe other ways that people are going to unlock other cast customer acquisition channels because you can mimic those competitors that you found that were indirect. Yeah, cool.
Lilliana Robinson: So curious about that.
Lilliana Robinson: There has to be like 3 strong and consumption beforehand, and like
we call it screening criteria, so screening the correct recruits. And we do a whole session on that cause. That is.
Lilliana Robinson: he was in it.
Lilliana Robinson: You were in it. In that one do a deep dive we breezed over.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we're gonna do a deep dive. So what we're referring to is rich went through our Chicago selection process, which is separate from these 2 selection processes that you guys. Well, we should tell them about that real quick cause you all need to know. Cause I'm gonna keep referring back to it.
Lilliana Robinson: So we joined this program late in the game kind of right? So what's amazing is that we've got Naji in the back. Who is responsible for the vast majority of you being here? So we're super grateful for him and his process that he took to do that but just so you know how we've gone about selection over the years from Chicago is.
Lilliana Robinson: we actually have everyone go through the stuff that we're talking about as a part of the application process.
Lilliana Robinson: So that was like a a change. So it was like, Hey, like, I'm not even gonna talk to you until I know that this is something you care about customer discovery in these frameworks. I'm not gonna talk to you until I see a first stab at a financial model, and that you dialed in your Kpis
Lilliana Robinson: and I. So these are the thing, and then the last part of it is a questionnaire that all of you didn't fill out, cause that was what I use to still make that decision, and and and bad. But for most of you, what we're talking about is maybe somewhat new, but for some of you. It is a rehash, so help me get even more sophisticated into the weeds of making us better. So that's still good use of everyone's time. Who's already heard some of this before? I just wanna make sure I'm really sensitive to make sure I don't waste company like founders time. So that's why, I keep saying
Lilliana Robinson: great, thank you, Fiona. That was amazing. Did anyone have other questions for Ferona? I know. She went and sat back down. But yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: like how we
that's better.
Lilliana Robinson: No. I can't hear his question, either. We're bringing you back up or say say with the chest.
Lilliana Robinson: So once you got the
Lilliana Robinson: like? What help you find the right solution by.
Lilliana Robinson: or how do you? How? What's the process to run through to like? Modify that concept for your product, your approach?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So I think that. Oh, yes. So that's probably more about like running experiments like a question about running running the experiments themselves, because we did run experiments. And that's what we did for the second the two-thirds of the program when we sun set. The genius bar is that we just run
Lilliana Robinson: experiments. It was. It has to be very fast, though. Like, for instance, we we knew that personal trainer thing. And so we're like, okay, this time. Let's try a method where each person sees same like technician, I guess, for the entirety of their life. You know, customer a lifetime as a customer, and so is it got. Does it work? This is not. And then there's metrics that we track. So yeah, we just ran a lot of experiments backwards.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that answer your question? Great, great, cool. I have one other thing I want to share. And we'll we'll we'll go.
Lilliana Robinson: I as
Lilliana Robinson: I. It's weird to say, as an investor cause I don't even I don't feel like I'm an investor. I feel like I'm more of a founder. I don't know a lot of the investor lingo. I don't have the same degree of sophistication with knowing a lot of the stuff that might be important down the road for you. But what I do know is the same thing that resonated with what I heard from David Cohen, which is, I think I have an eye for finding really, really like brilliant people who are interested in
Lilliana Robinson: like solving a problem very deeply and really well, and understanding it.
Lilliana Robinson: And what that's enabling me to be successful around is.
Lilliana Robinson: if I can prepare all of you through this program to have that deep level of customer insight
Lilliana Robinson: that, like the fundraising piece, starts to solve for itself because you become differentiated and impressive in those conversations because of how well you understand things that other people don't.
Lilliana Robinson: So that is what I'm hanging my head on as a strategist here as an investor is like, can I transform these entrepreneurs and people who can set their own process rather than them, feeling like they have to be reliant and dependent on me to have a successful process. So I'm trying. I'm abstracting myself one layer back. Because this is what I know I can do well, and what I know my team knows how to do well, and the people I have access to and surround myself with are some of the best in the world at. So that's the like.
Lilliana Robinson: The the big brain thinking with, like the overall strategy of the first part of the program
Lilliana Robinson: cool. So we made Neil and I wrote, you can't see it here, really. But we wrote, this is a base camp to do list. We wrote this during Covid. It is a comprehensive to do list, and Kate has revamped it for us. That will be assigned to you guys as we teach you jobs to be done, all of you will complete the entire to do list, and at the end, like Ferona said, you're gonna have this document that basically says every single job that you are doing for your customer. What is your customer trying to hire you for. So what we're trying to say here is that don't worry about taking notes.
Lilliana Robinson: Everything that we're talking about, that we're recommending as steps we have spelled out meticulously, and if you follow these steps. everything that we're covering over these next 3 4 sessions in the next week
Lilliana Robinson: you will be able to revisit and rehash and go through it. So no worries kick back, be intellectually curious.
Lilliana Robinson: fight us with these ideas, and like we'll just get into it, and then you will keep Re. We we I will give this lecture 1,000 times if you want, and I will keep going, and having this conversation to make it better each time. But this is like our bread and butter, so I want you to count how many times like I feel like. It's not 100. It's been a lot I've been. I've been teaching jobs to be done for. It's 2023, right? So
Lilliana Robinson: 11 years it's been 11 years of applying this framework. So
Lilliana Robinson: defining the problem, oh, yeah. So I'm an investor now. So I talk to people. And they wanna tell me like what they're doing with their business, and I always have to cut them off, because, like, oh, my business assistant is doing this for this where I'm like. Tell me a story. Keep it simple. So when you all meet with the founders, probably this week, some of them tell you what your what their app does, or what their business is about, whatever. I don't know how many of you ask someone to tell a story.
Lilliana Robinson: but if you do, you find you and you learn different things. And when people just talk about their app and what it does. Yeah?
Lilliana Robinson: Cause he told you a story.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: exactly. What about the robot market.
Lilliana Robinson: is it? Are you, Max?
Lilliana Robinson: Will you project a little bit for the So
Lilliana Robinson: I found it very interesting that the
Lilliana Robinson: DC space. You can have these extremely compelling stories, and I thought best presentations have, like an old grandma, and they call it Lucy, or whatever it was, and Lucy falls down, and you know she now has this walk instead. It's one of the presentations we saw in.
Lilliana Robinson: and there's there's a handful of the the excellent drive Guy.
Lilliana Robinson: who have a, you know, a personal story.
Lilliana Robinson: and they go thinking like in in a me to be space, which I imagine most of us are in here.
Lilliana Robinson: It's not as exciting. It's not as it's not as human right. No, you disagree with me. We have some pictures. You might want to. Okay, fine. I'll just my question. Look like, how do we make something
Lilliana Robinson: as human is like the ground last week downstairs? But it's like, yeah, increasingly, sales and e-commerce. Well, is that what they're buying?
Lilliana Robinson: Or is that what you're selling? Right? There's 2 different things. That's literally a slide ring. Well, so just a quick hit. No, your question is fantastic, because we actually had this debate
Lilliana Robinson: in the room right before this, with Kate, Lilly, John, and myself. We were prepping this. We always go over the slides before we start, and we were like, wait a second like we got this B 2 B problem, because most of these companies would be to be. We love talking about, you know, consumer based stories, cause they're really insightful and compelling, like you just, said the gig worker. You know. Example, they they resonate cause we're consumers at the end of the day, all of us, so we can all relate, whereas not all of us are part of these businesses, we have empathy for what you would be dealing with as a challenge in a business context.
Lilliana Robinson: But don't forget the most important thing
Lilliana Robinson: at the end of the day. Your customers are still human beings. Even the robot bartender has a human behind it to make the deal right to sign the contract to work with the manufacturer. So, no matter what you're selling, you are at the end of the day trying to find a human being with a name who has emotions and feelings and needs that you are trying to like work with and help succeed. So how close can you get to their actual struggling moment as a person? So just to jump ahead a little bit
Lilliana Robinson: a lot of the time. It's not about the bottom line success of the overall business. And instead, it's about their status in the business being enhanced because of the contractor deal that they get to make
Lilliana Robinson: right. So what does it allow them? Are they the hero of the company now? Because they found this company that they're partnered with to make them look better and make their job easier. Now, one area that we've worked in closely. I've been a number of investments in that. This becomes a big problem is cybersecurity. Yeah, cybersecurity. Think about it.
Lilliana Robinson: If you are bringing in something that's helping you, better identify and protect the business. What does that say about you doing your job. Oh, wait! I need someone else. And I need to spend thousands of dollars on another solution to make sure we're protected. Why did we hire you.
Lilliana Robinson: why are you here? So there's a really sensitive dynamic in the B 2 B context. Because if you're bringing in technology to
Lilliana Robinson: potentially replace people, it can get really awkward and be very guarded. So Joe's story of the guy who blocked your business from moving forward, and then that guy no longer works there. What did they hire instead? Is it a person? Is it technology? Is it nothing? I don't know. But that's where it gets really interesting. And nuance, Max.
Lilliana Robinson: making use of paper.
Lilliana Robinson: And it's even more fun with B 2 B, because there's multiple layers of customers to understand. It's not just one person. Information has to pass through different layers for people to approve and say yes to. So you have to understand the empathy for each of those people in those different roles.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright. So I think you're gonna really like the W. 3 workshop on Thursday afternoon, because that directly addresses that the the decision maker is a person. So to make it real, we have this one company bloomfilter. Do you want to say what bloom filter does bloom filter provides diagnostic software to track their performance of your software development teams. So Bloomfilter realized. And I'll say this in the W. 3, they realized that their customer was Cios
Lilliana Robinson: companies between 50 and 500 people, and they were losing sleep and actually having negative family life balance because all of their developers were having things fall through, and it was getting blamed on them. It was interesting because it was Cios. You would think it was Ctos, but through jobs to be done they figured that out so their whole pitch and stories around like saving that person's job, and them having security in their life
Lilliana Robinson: which you wouldn't think like they make something that's like Jira. How does that like save someone's family life? But it does, Kate. Let's put a PIN in that because you challenged me on what a good. B 2 B example is, and that's it. Bloom filter was a company that I advocated, for at a venture firm I worked at. They said no, they turned them down.
Lilliana Robinson: And then I said, You know what I'm gonna invest in them, anyway. So I put them to tech stars.
Lilliana Robinson: They closed the 7 million dollar round, I think, recently, and they're in talks with Sequoia for the follow-up right now. So all these people said, no, wasn't a good idea, not gonna work. We did the Jtp. With them. They trusted us. They went to this program, and not only do they just recently closed around, but they're in talks with one of the big ways to move forward with the next, and one of our eirs actually joined as a Co. CEO of the company. That was pretty cool. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: whatever. And again, it actually works. That's awesome. Then did you guys hear what Ben said? We need to echo this the other example. I wanted to share with you guys because, Neil said cyber security, we had a startup, incredible solo founder, Brian Friton in the first class havoc shield still still doing amazingly, he did jobs to be done on his own during program, while running and selling his business
Lilliana Robinson: selling for his business, and what he realized was cyber security in his context. He was doing it for startups. It was all about the developers who got burned before by having a leak, so instead of them seeing it as what he thought was replacing them, they live in constant fear that they're so they're missing something, and that if they get hacked again they're done. They're gonna get fired because it happened once before. So he started targeting people who got scammed before where they're a smaller company.
Lilliana Robinson: and the Devs are just desperate. They're desperate to like sleep. Well, it's it's literally like sleep. They're desperate to have their life back, because all they do is worry about the security of the tech for their business, because it happened once before he started selling in there and skyrocketed, and also helped a lot of people which is also really important, at least to us.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm just now realizing that cause. I'm having fun talking about all this with all of you all are asking some of the best questions I've ever heard in the session like this, and we're not even through my first slide. Which is no, this is exactly why we did. We have a lot of time right? We had 2h to do this, but I just want you all to know, like
Lilliana Robinson: I like Foundercon. I love that Andres did that that customer discovery session.
Lilliana Robinson: the details that we're sharing with you all are somewhat private and confidential. So I just want to be clear about that like we get to get real with you guys to talk about real examples with real companies and real founders, because they're all a part of the same network.
Lilliana Robinson: Right? So our the companies that we've invested in it's not just Chicago. It's the companies that we've I've invested in. We've invested in. So they're a part of your community, too. So when I ask them to come, help you all or answer questions or interact. They're down, cause they know that you all are going through the same thing that they went through
Lilliana Robinson: with this program experience. So just know the people I'm talking about aren't mythical. These are folks that we will introduce you to, that you can learn from that. Do workshops for us now. Nutrition has a really great growth hacking workshop that I love. So one of my favorite ones now, so month 2 nutrisons is coming in. You'll meet them so just know that you'll learn from our successes and our failures.
Lilliana Robinson: And I'm I'm it's like amazing that we have so much data and examples. It's circle of trust. That's what we say. So I wish, I said, that at the beginning circle of trust for everything we share.
Lilliana Robinson: and
Lilliana Robinson: it might and might be just. I just want to hear more. If not now we can talk about it better. That's such an interesting example with the other of like what you just got the use case right like, how how cheap and how specific it is?
Lilliana Robinson: Can you give us like a sample, or anything that showcases, how they found those people.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, how do they go out and get those customers after? Okay, that's like, part 2 or 3. Well, first, he's saying, how did they sell to them. So he figure. So first you have this screening criteria, then you go out and find those people to interview without selling to them. You figure out the job to be done, and guess what you get to go back to them. Those people that you hunted down for the interview and sell to them
Lilliana Robinson: after you've completed it. So going back to the objectivity, we're not selling in this entire thing. You know the job. You adjust your product for the job and your pitch.
Lilliana Robinson: Now it's time to sell. We already have those people. Those people will introduce you to other people, and you know what to ask for. So people get up on stage. We're looking for this kind of person that's in this situation, let us know, and that's something people say at demo day. Christian. Did that. And will you pass a narrow net for the
Lilliana Robinson: interviewing? And then you know that. So it's a very narrow segment. So when you say, Cast away that. Do you mean you say that segment? Yeah, exactly.
Lilliana Robinson: So in that example, like, I bet they probably didn't know those people who burden forward like, How how do you? How do you like? How do you narrow it like, how do you hunt that down like we got to. Yeah, that's what I'm gonna do. I just wanna give next week. It's not a raw promise.
Lilliana Robinson: Not so
by student.
Lilliana Robinson: they buy solutions. Okay, jobs to be done. Yeah, what is it.
Lilliana Robinson: Paula? What is it? Status? Okay?
Lilliana Robinson: Well, so hold on.
Lilliana Robinson: So, okay, he's got it. So it's higher. So job the whole us of job to be done is that you're hiring someone to do a job for you? Right? So it's a slight reframe. And people think it's the same. So like we have. Yeah, like people. II mean, I'll be specific. I mean, Troy immer, like 2 of my favorite people in the world who like I pull in the mentoring you guys work with. You're gonna meet them.
Lilliana Robinson: I swear they still don't understand this, like they know, cause like the the mistake that you can make with this framework is you would go jobs to be done. Yeah, that's like the problem you're solving. And you will equate the 2 you go. The problem my I'm solving is the job to be done, and then you'll hear phrases. Inventor madness of oh, well, your job to be done is, and then they'll fill in the gaps with what they think.
Lilliana Robinson: That's not how this works. You don't think of what the job to be done is, you discover it from actually evaluating your customer's behavior and getting to an insight. That is what Ferona referred to as the Why before the why.
Lilliana Robinson: the problem is the why. But what comes before the why that leads them to even realize they have a problem. In the first place, that is what we're looking for. It's the layer underneath. So it's a little bit more nuanced than what most people understand. And I did this this morning as like a ritual.
Lilliana Robinson: I Googled jobs to be done again online.
And if you Google it and you click the links.
Lilliana Robinson: you're not going to learn what we're talking about here. I promise you it's going to be really confusing, really messy, because there's a lot of people that are clamoring to this phrase to like profit from it by teaching it in a variety of ways that demonstrate a lack of understanding of it. So be wary of what you will read about online about this.
Lilliana Robinson: and that gives me more exciting, because I'm like a lot of people think they know. But they have no idea you guys will hear from the actual founder of the framework. This is stuff that Neil was in the room for, and the books that we're gonna assign to you guys, there are a lot of books called jobs. And all this stuff we're giving you the ones that are actually written by the founders of the framework.
Lilliana Robinson: And after that I want back to Google so many times for so many links. And it gets so amazing and like, end up just like screw that I'm going back because
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, you'll cut through the noise.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright. So the drill.
Lilliana Robinson: What do they want?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, they want the whole right? So you buy a drill, not for the drill. You buy a drill for the whole. But why do you buy the whole?
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, you're hanging something. Okay? Good. This goes back to my story. Thank you. So the hanging this is where, like, I can get super real with you all. I'm a strange person. So when 13 years ago, I decided to teach myself software engineering just out of college.
Lilliana Robinson: I kind of went mad. So I like
Lilliana Robinson: plastered my entire apartment with like motivational posters that I custom designed literally wall to wall, and the bathrooms and the kitchen all over the everywhere, like my house, looks super weird. I have a picture of it, but like I literally made these posters. These aren't the ones but stuff like this
Lilliana Robinson: where I was like. Let me just surround myself with all the wisdom of all the people from all time that I can find and like everywhere I look, I'm just gonna be inspired. So I did that right? So that's that's my story. But why did I do that cause? I was learning how to code? I was doing something really hard. No one had ever done it before. You'll hear my founder story next weekend.
Lilliana Robinson: But it was because I wanted to get you done. Okay, so I was like, everywhere I look. Remind yourself and you'll get back to work, so that was kind of what I was doing. So I was hiring the drill in the hole and hanging on the wall so I could make progress. I say all this to say, be careful, because everything. Has anyone heard of the 5 wise
Lilliana Robinson: 5 wide framework? Yeah. Okay. A lot of you heard that you keep asking why you to a point where you're questioning reality. So you have to be careful. You gotta call it at a point. There's some point where you go. Okay, we can't keep asking why? Yeah, exactly. You gotta just dial it back one step, because if you go too deep. You're you're getting into a territory that could be very strange. So I'll give you another example. Here, go ahead and do that, since I'm gonna look at Poop.
Lilliana Robinson: But but I'll give you a quick example, and I'll explain this image
Lilliana Robinson: when I was doing a jobs to be done. Interview one time in Detroit with Bob.
Lilliana Robinson: We got to a point where we realized that what we were learning about the why and the problem
Lilliana Robinson: was so disconnected from the product itself, and it had everything to do with a woman in a struggling marriage.
Lilliana Robinson: That I was like. This is territory that I am unqualified to to unpack for it. But just know that sometimes what's going on in someone's life is so deep and so personal. It's beyond your capacity as a founder, and as someone selling a product to even reach and be involved in. So you gotta know when to draw the line, because sometimes I've been on calls where it gets so personal, whether it's almost like you could offend someone cause you're starting to ask them things that like
Lilliana Robinson: they'll start to cry.
Lilliana Robinson: you know, because you're getting a really, really deep into what's going on in their life. So like, we're not therapists.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, we're journalists. So do your job and know your boundaries with respect to who you're talking to and how you're trying to help them.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. So I shared this image because the whole point of this is to humble everyone in the room.
Lilliana Robinson: You are neither of these things. You're the customer, I mean, they're the customer. There's somewhere they want to be. There's progress they want to make, and there's where you fit in. And right now you're not even on this screen, right?
Lilliana Robinson: So go to the next one for me.
Lilliana Robinson: This is it so, job to be done is a struggling moment. given circumstance.
Lilliana Robinson: and the like. The notion that I can be a better version of myself at some point.
Lilliana Robinson: So as the customer, this is how I'm thinking about things. Where do you all you think fit into this image?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, there's no bad right now. Right? So you're not even in this image right now. You don't exist. But you are the path that the customer needs to go to get to their destination where they wanna be.
Lilliana Robinson: The mistake that we make so often as founders is. We think we are the world right, because your whole life is working on your business. But until you can zoom out and realize that the people we're here to help don't care about us. They care about themselves.
Lilliana Robinson: and they're gonna use us to get to that better version of themselves. So we happen to be that pathway, or we want them to take our bridge as opposed to someone else's. Yep, yeah.
So we're taxed.
Lilliana Robinson: You're just a bridge I'm gonna go across now.
Lilliana Robinson: You're they're they're selling themselves on it because they're already ready. You know the right person, and you built what they needed right in front of them to go. I'm ready to cross.
Lilliana Robinson: I've never.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll teach you guys on the W. 3 workshop. But there's a diffusion of innovation curve adoption of a new innovation. If you're familiar, we're trying to get like, very, very small on the innovators. Those people might be a little bit later in the innovation curve.
Lilliana Robinson: They're not ready to adopt right away
Lilliana Robinson: and going back to Ben, you said, you need to know this person to build the bridge. What else do you need to know to build the bridge on him.
Lilliana Robinson: They're the other side. Where are you putting it? Where do they wanna go? They need to believe that where they're going is the right place, you think you know. But jobs to be done will tell you the person's situation and their desired outcome.
Lilliana Robinson: I saw some nuts. Yeah, go ahead.
Salt.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, it's very popular amongst the consultants, you know. They like to use these phrases, the 80 20 rule boiling the ocean, you know, squeezing blood from a rock. You know, they can say all these things, but that actually holds up roughly, anecdotally. It's relatively true meaning we're trying to figure out what's the like small amount of effort that leads to the majority of the progress.
Lilliana Robinson: Right? So if you think about it in that way, that's what we're trying to coach you all towards is like, how can we do?
Lilliana Robinson: And this is gonna be crazy? Cause I think, Max, you said you did 200 customer interviews. Was that what I heard now, who was it? 1 one sorry. Sorry next to so 200 customer interviews, a lot of the founders that try to come to text ours and apply. Oh, we did 300 customer interviews, I'm like, so so what what does that mean? Like? Tell me what the volume of people actually means.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm more impressed if you tell me you interviewed 12 people.
Lilliana Robinson: but you learned what you needed to get 100 customers. Then, saying, I talked to 3,500 people on my survey, or I got them to fill out these results. That doesn't mean anything unless it translates to actual engagement and conversion.
Lilliana Robinson: So again, quality before quantity, that's what we're going to focus on today. And in the next week. And I think I think this is where I usually like to say, because I'm an engineer. So all the statisticians in the room are probably thinking about sample size, and all of that
Lilliana Robinson: the difference is, the pool changes. So when you cast this wide net and you're doing 200 to represent the you know.
Lilliana Robinson: 300 million that live in America. That is much better than doing 12 when you're doing a narrow segment where the maximum of people that you could probably find in the us alone. That would buy your product for B 2 B, maybe, is like 312 people actually is a good sample size to represent that small pool. But it's all about targeting and knowing that narrow segment, and will help you with that. So that's kind of where you can compromise those 2 ideas in your head.
Lilliana Robinson: cause that's the first thing I thought. And, Madison, thank you for bringing that up to learning environment. Yeah, Bob's a little cheeky, more cheeky than me. Sometimes I have to learn these things, but I remember like he, he's an example. Cause a lot of founders, especially early stage, like the ones that I teach at university
Lilliana Robinson: like kids these days. They love hiding behind their screens. They don't wanna go out. They don't wanna go out of the building. They don't wanna go to talk to people in real life. They're used to Tiktok Instagram, whatever social media they use to posting things online and not having to actually like go interact with human beings. So I remember, Bob was like, Oh, well.
Lilliana Robinson: someone said we could do a survey. Bob goes. I will kill you like, but not in like a mean way, but almost like a I'm so frustrated by how many people think at an early stage surveys, give you insights about what people actually want.
Lilliana Robinson: They don't, because most of the time when someone's filling out a survey.
Lilliana Robinson: you're lying, even if you're not intentionally lying. You're saying what you think you would do in a situation hypothetically rather than your actual behavior, and what you actually done. So until we understand the causal mechanisms behind someone's actions as opposed to our subjective opinions about what we would do in a hypothetical scenario like I'm here to like hopefully pull the curtain back on that way of thinking
Lilliana Robinson: so alright. The only way to know that in a survey is to make it real at the end. Ask them to cough up their wallet. Oh, you said you'd use this. Well, pay $20. Oh, I'd say I pay $20. Okay, here. Well, here's the 20. Here's a form. Are you ready for this one? Enter your credit card. Yeah, that's what we make our students do. And they're amazed at how many like, even if 200 people said they were gonna use it. They get 2, they get one, they get 0.
Lilliana Robinson: Maybe it's not indicative of people's real motives. So that's why I would challenge that.
Lilliana Robinson: Almost like surveys ever
Lilliana Robinson: surveys are great service, absolutely fantastic with the right frame, the right way with the right effort and intent behind it with the thought process of what you want to learn and the right questions. The problem with surveys is when people think it replaces certain insights. Or if you think it's a validator of demand
Lilliana Robinson: when you're framing questions in a in a way that I would almost call goal, seek.
Lilliana Robinson: because think about it like this, when you hear people go. Oh, well, we interviewed, or we surveyed 1,000 people, and they all said that they would pay this for this thing. Oh, yeah, they said that. What does that mean? Can you prove that to me other than people clicking a but a radio button and hitting submit. That's not real. I'm sorry, but like, if that's true, then let's go run it
Lilliana Robinson: right, all right. You said 1,000 people filled it out. They said they would pay $20. How many actually did it?
Lilliana Robinson: So I'll give you another quick example, because I probably won't share this in my founder story. But 13 years ago, when I was learning the lean, startup framework, because that was when it came out like 2,008, 2,009, Eric Reese. It was like a cool thing.
Lilliana Robinson: and I was learning it, too, as an entrepreneur. They have this thing where they teach customer interviews.
Lilliana Robinson: So you do problem interviews and use solution interviews. So I did problem interviews for this coding school that I was gonna start. And I interviewed 25 people who I thought fit my profile, and I interviewed 25 people, and they all said that they would pay anywhere from 4 to $8,000 to do a 3 month like school program.
Lilliana Robinson: So I made it real. I launched my school program. Do you want to guess how many of those 25 people signed up from my class 0. They were not the people I was trying to actually sell to.
Lilliana Robinson: I happen to get lucky. And I was right about that. And I found a lot other, a lot more people who said yes, and signed up right away. But it wasn't the people who I thought I was learning about and understanding who had said they had the need
Lilliana Robinson: so like. That was like a huge Aha! Moment for me of realizing, like even with the interviews you do you think you're learning because they're your customers, or they're the best customers you have? You're not talking to the right people.
Lilliana Robinson: So whether it's a survey or an interview, you can still get it wrong.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, where did you learn that?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So here's I love that you brought that up. But that's like advance. It's like grad level. We're talking like a different tier. That's like Class 5. But just so, you know, like, what we're talking about. Is it like new?
Lilliana Robinson: This is wisdom that's existed for a long time. It's just being repackaged with different words, different language, different frameworks. But it's still the same wisdom of the most successful companies of all time.
Lilliana Robinson: and what they learn over time for how they became who they are. We're just repackaging that wisdom to make it accessible to this group.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, so one thing that
Lilliana Robinson: I mean, who wouldn't?
Lilliana Robinson: It's I always struggle, too. So through the past, we we have identified like economic fire and implementation.
Lilliana Robinson: which are 2 different people for us in terms of what we sell on the platform
Lilliana Robinson: and
Lilliana Robinson: the why, for the insects are very different. So I would love to learn more around how we can. Because we're
Lilliana Robinson: we're selling
Lilliana Robinson: to an economic buyer. But then the implementation buyer comes in, and they're very key in terms of making it successful. and they can also be the ones that shut you down properly, but in our experience, like
Lilliana Robinson: role reception to make.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Oh, yeah, you have. It's like, so this comes up not only in the example you share, but also a lot of the time with what we call 2 sided marketplaces, where you have to interview different stakeholders who have very different needs, and you have to decide. Where do you start?
Lilliana Robinson: But we'll help you draft this entire program. Put that system together.
Lilliana Robinson: You probably won't be able to interview everybody all at once. So you have to choose one group and then work your way to the other groups, but would love to work with you on that.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, alright cool. Let's keep going.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So you're gonna get annoyed by me hearing me say this word all the time I love this word. So my favorite words, progress, progress, progress, progress. What is progress is like for this meeting that we're gonna have? Right? What is progress like for this talk that we're gonna give what is progress. So like for your customer, I use this word all the time because it's like deep representation of where I'm at versus where I wanna be progress. So that's what you're gonna experience with me. I'm giving you that disclaimer. Now, people underestimate
Lilliana Robinson: how much I mean that when I say it. So just know that that's me. I should get a tattoo
Lilliana Robinson: so keep going. You're the bridge. There it is. We got the bridge, and we're almost done with this. Actually. So also, we talked about circumstances. So understanding the context in which someone needs help.
Lilliana Robinson: this is going back to the product demo question. We talked about earlier. So many people just jump into explaining a thing. And we make all these assumptions about a person's context until you actually understand what circumstance brings the context to mind. In the first place where I need to, I'm at this website. I'm on your app because something happened. Well, what happened that led you to needing to be here until you frame it that way? You can't just assume that people are just here.
Lilliana Robinson: So with the surveys with the interviews with those insights. Get the story leading up to it, and we have a visual for that in a few slides. But here's another one that I think is really helpful
Lilliana Robinson: most of the time with a lot of the entrepreneurs that we say no to who don't get into this program. They're spending their time on the symptoms, and maybe they can speak to the problem. But they're not really getting at the root causes. So this is one of my favorite graphics from a book that we'll make sure that all of you get a copy of that Bob wrote last year, called Demand Side sales 101
Lilliana Robinson: this was an overlap, I think, between Colin and I. So Colin, who was going to be the MD. For these programs. Colin Wallace is one of his favorite books. He says every company he invested. He buys this book.
Lilliana Robinson: He didn't know that I'm very close friends with Bob. But he pulled out the book. And I'm like, dude. Yeah, that's Bob, like we're all on the same page. So hopefully, we're Ca, we're passing the torch and carrying the same line of thinking here. Oh, do they plug in directly, or I think we can just play it from here, and like crank the volume, maybe. Alright. Do you know what? Let's? It's Bluetooth right? And I'll set this up. I got you
Lilliana Robinson: wonderful.
Let's go.
Lilliana Robinson: Allie met Bob.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, yeah, 4 years ago. So Ali was on our 2019 screening person. He was on the screen.
Lilliana Robinson: Then one remembers while he came to vote. So we didn't do that.
Lilliana Robinson: He was really impressed by what she had
Lilliana Robinson: November.
Lilliana Robinson: But to ask this question. Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: one of the most famous things.
Lilliana Robinson: Hi, my name
Lilliana Robinson: competing against Lot, which is, is jobs done? Well, it is like the pinnacle of jobs to be done for me, because that's where he actually pointed in coincident in real life as an enterprise. So Neil and Bob, I've been spending the last, maybe 5 to 8 years.
Lilliana Robinson: I think what we have to do is, we're just gonna have to play it from the computer speakers and hope that it's not enough for everyone to hear. So if that's cool with everybody. That's what we're gonna try to do. If that doesn't work, we'll adapt. But
Lilliana Robinson: that is the solution that I have for now.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I'll go hold it. Let's give it a shot.
Lilliana Robinson: I don't want to go. What is that?
Lilliana Robinson: Is it loud?
Lilliana Robinson: Alright, let's do it. If you guys can hear, let us know. If not, we'll make it work
Lilliana Robinson: alright.
Lilliana Robinson: Can you guys on zoom hear it
Lilliana Robinson: when we played it before? Cool?
Lilliana Robinson: Hi! My name's Clay Christiansen. I am a professor at the Harvard Business School
Lilliana Robinson: 2
Lilliana Robinson: that are.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm proud with me, a set of puzzles all related to innovation.
Lilliana Robinson: It works
Lilliana Robinson: people on zoom. This is what we're gonna do real quick, because we're gonna call an audible. I'm gonna rejoin the zoom in a second. The reason is because Zoom audio is competing with this, the the audio sharing. So I'm gonna play it out, these Bluetooth speakers. I'll be right back alright. Here's the link watch that, and like we'll come back in like 6min. Cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright, we're gonna do that.
Lilliana Robinson: How do I leave someone else has to?
Mariana Chambers: II assume you guys finish the video.
Lilliana Robinson: we just finished. So let's start talking while Oliana says this backup
Lilliana Robinson:  So let's talk about that. I know you guys can hear us no all good.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: At the end he closes out by saying, it makes improvements simple.
Lilliana Robinson: What kind of improvements do you think Mcdonald's made after they had these insights one.
Lilliana Robinson: and then something.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, got it. So I'm gonna give you a little bit of a tip here. So let's we have 2 different groups.
Lilliana Robinson: One group is sales and marketing.
Lilliana Robinson: The other group is product.
Lilliana Robinson: So you're on the product exec team at Mcdonald's. Some of you are on the sales and marketing exec team at Mcdonald's. So what do we do on? I'll give you a bone. What do we do in the product site?
Lilliana Robinson: So you just said cup holders right? Right? What else
Lilliana Robinson: the name is?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Smaller straws. What else can you do to make it take even longer? Make it more thick? That's exactly what they did. What else?
Lilliana Robinson: You're on the product team at Mcdonald's. We now know people are hiring this for breakfast. Sorry? Yeah. I mean, I don't know if y'all remember. But I was a kid when the Mcdonalds without smoothies
Lilliana Robinson: remember bugs because they just had milkshakes. And then in the ninetys I think they rolled out the smoothies. So Hello, like, that's where it came from. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: that's that's actually they had those. That's that's how he did the interviews. Right? So he went outside. We found these people driving off right
Lilliana Robinson: for sure was that you're scratching your head. Okay, it's all good. Anyone else
Lilliana Robinson: on the product side, Seeerson
Lilliana Robinson: super size. Why
Lilliana Robinson: longer drive? So I want this tall cup. I wanted to take a while right? It's going to be slower, to consume for sure. Yup make it thicker. Yup
Lilliana Robinson: smoothies. Parfa's Mac cafe like exact. So so I just want, you know, there's there's something happen when they realize that they're selling milkshakes and milkshakes are being hired to do a job that it's not perfect for, but it's good enough for people who are coming to Mcdonald's for their breakfast in the morning on their way to work
Lilliana Robinson: right? So it's the same similar opportunity you all have. Alright, let's go to sales and marketing.
Lilliana Robinson: Put up a good
Lilliana Robinson: on on the highway, on the expressway. Up. Come, get off at exit 41 C, you know. Pull over and get some breakfast. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Interesting. Yep.
Paper.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: exactly promoting the products that people want. Yeah, that's I haven't heard anyone say that before. But that's exactly it.
Lilliana Robinson: Where you
program.
Lilliana Robinson: Radio. Yeah, yeah, exactly meet them where they are right. They're listening to the radio. Well, these days is different. But you get it right. What else?
Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: yes, less guilt. Right? Yes, they they they call them smoothies or par phase, or you know, they have other language that they can use breakfast shake right? Yeah.
Products. But people bring?
Lilliana Robinson: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: so so what's amazing? So here's the thing. Look! Look at what you all just did like once we knew the job all of a sudden coming up with all the ways that we can experiment to go. How do we actually accomplish that job? For that segment of customers becomes really clear and intuitive.
Lilliana Robinson: But if you didn't know the job you're like, Wait 8 Am. Milkshakes like, are they coming back from the club like, like, how do we? What do we do there like, do we? You put you don't have nearly as much direction when you don't have the insights you need about what actually, you know, someone's hiring at the team.
Lilliana Robinson: So yeah, Alex, so I'm curious. Once you find out the name and they will alone.
Lilliana Robinson: Would something like tired of being alone in the car while you try. And
Lilliana Robinson: or is it too much of?
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, well, so that's a great question.
Lilliana Robinson: What's nice about that is that we don't have to assume anything.
Lilliana Robinson: We will use their words and their language and their information to answer that question. So what you just said might be what they said I don't know
Lilliana Robinson: so, but we're not going to assume, and we're not going to fill in the gaps with our own language. We're going to use theirs to reinforce the decisions that we make for them.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense? Yeah. But let's say, like was work that they use? Yes, we have that fever that yes. Would you think those words
Lilliana Robinson: least the Chancellor?
Lilliana Robinson: It gives us a better shot at doing so. We try. You express so the the one of the things people. I'm gonna do this for, you guys. So maybe I should give them a warning. So one of the warnings I'll have for next week is that at some point when you do your jobs to be done insights, I'm gonna pull up your homepage.
Lilliana Robinson: whatever all the businesses and your websites. And I'm gonna read the words that you have on your homepage to go. Are you talking to the right person?
Lilliana Robinson: Because a lot of you probably aren't
Lilliana Robinson: right. And the words you say, and a lot of the times, all entrepreneurs we talk about ourselves and what we do. Look how awesome our product is, or our app, or what it is. And this is what you get when you come here, are you meeting them where they are, with what they need in their situation. Why are they at your website? In the first place.
Lilliana Robinson: so figure out whether you're speaking to the person who needs to show up to your website, or whether you're just talking about what you think. you are very different things.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's a great test.
Lilliana Robinson: So for the last 10min I wanna go over the 3 diagrams that are part of jobs to be done. So for the people on Zoom really quickly, clay Christensen wrote the innovators. Dilemma. This is what he's most known for, because it coined the term disrupt or disruptive innovation. Competing against luck is my personal favorite. This is his book that is about jobs to be done. And he wrote this with Bob messing.
Lilliana Robinson: This is the first of 3 diagrams.
Lilliana Robinson: The first 2 are the most important. The third is just supplementary. This is the Jtvd timeline. So the jobs to be done, timeline. This is what you and a partner will be filling out during the interview. So during every single interview, the person that is the note taker is filling out this timel, this timeline, this is the timeline of making a purchase. So I like to go through this step by step. The very first thought is probably way earlier than any of you have ever thought
Lilliana Robinson: so. A good example is a homework assignment that you guys are going to have after this, which is someone buying a mattress? A lot of people maybe like at Casper and other places might think that the first time that someone starts thinking about buying a mattress is when they go to the website. And they're like, Oh, yep, I'm actively looking. That's actually this stage event. Number 2, active looking. This is
Lilliana Robinson: 2 stages before this is you wake up and your back just has a little tweak in it. It hurts a little bit. You're a little more irritable to your children because you didn't sleep well the night before. Mental. No, hmm! Maybe I need to sleep. Better years could go by before you go right here, passive from first thoughts, passive or passive to active years.
Lilliana Robinson: Sometimes it's months, sometimes it's a matter of weeks. It depends how dire it is. But usually it's years event one something triggering happens. You start passively looking. And something happens that triggers you into active looking. So maybe you go from first thought you're passively looking. You're asking your friends do what mattress. Do you have like? Does? Are you happy with that? Do you sleep well casually? You're never doing anything about it.
Lilliana Robinson: Active looking is because something happens. You have that one fight with your family because you were too irritable. You miss a meeting at work because you didn't sleep well enough that you overslept your back hurt so badly that you can't pick up your child. Something like that you're like, okay. Now I'm now I'm actively looking. Now I'm scrolling Instagram. Now I'm on the websites I'm looking. I'm subscribing. I'm trying to find certain mattresses.
Lilliana Robinson: Event 2 event 2. And there could be multiple. This is a generalization. There could be multiple anywhere from like one to 4. You go into deciding. Now you have one that you want, you're thinking is this one I'm gonna buy, and then you buy it. Core is what I have good enough. I just need to adjust something exactly. Right? So you have different choices. And it's not just. I'm choosing from a variety of products. It's how do I deal with this problem? I'm I'm having right. And there's a lot of ways to solve for it.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's the deciding phase. Something about active looking is that a lot of people try to catch the customer in the active looking? They've pretty much already been sold on one thing once they're active looking. Your best bet is to come all the way up here and figure out where that first thought is and get them bent. That's almost a hundred percent, because it's an open market. It's like the Wild West. Nobody has claimed them yet. When we get to buying, then they're consuming. And the most important thing is when they're experienced with it. Are they satisfied? What's the outcome?
Lilliana Robinson: Healthy obsession with customer success. So we're trying to get you all to the point where you can spend your time focused on helping your customers be as happy as they can be.
Lilliana Robinson: But we have a lot more work to do to get y'all to that point where we're even worried about that.
Lilliana Robinson: So the next one, and arguably the most important. So this is that was during the interview. Once you're done now, we gotta go. Okay. What did we hear? What did we learn? How do we unpack all the notes that we just took in the conversation we just had, so I'll let you explain the forces. So you do. A 15min debrief after every interview with your partner, and go through this and plot these forces so.
Lilliana Robinson: as you can see on here, I'll use my mouse. Everyone can see it. This is where you normally are. This is the status quo. This is the new innovation. Push and pull our moving Jane DOE toward the new behavior. Have it an anxiety, or forces that keep you at bay keep you at status quo, so push the most potent push that I can ever think of is like physical pain. So I brought up that back pain one. It can be other things. It could be that your car got in a wreck.
Lilliana Robinson: You need a new car. That's a push. But the main one I think of is physical pain. There's also financial pain. Any sort of pain is usually a push. It's something that you cannot avoid. You cannot ignore. It's pushing you. I have a problem I need to solve, and I must make it better. Now
Lilliana Robinson: that is, a push
Lilliana Robinson: pull is much more alluring. This is usually very social. It's a lot more about being tempted. So Tesla does a great job at this majority of people who buy Tesla's do not have a car that doesn't work. Fona is here. She has 2 cars right. She's a ta! Oh, she's not here anymore. She's a Tesla and Audi. She had the audi. They have a Tesla because it's alluring is a status symbol. I haven't done a job to be done interview with her. So I'm generally.
Lilliana Robinson: but that is a good pull. It's it's the excitement of being a better version of yourself
Lilliana Robinson: right. But it's not necessarily a problem you're facing. So things that enhance one's outlook about who you could be. So it's a little dangerous territory, because a lot of the times you'll hear our Vcs. Is it a vitamin or a pain killer? There's a vitamin. There's a pain killer. What's the difference? Pain Killer is. I got back. Pan Cvs. Give me some pills like Help me out.
Lilliana Robinson: Vitamin is like I'm aspirationally, proactively thinking about what I can do to be a better version of me, and therefore I'm gonna seek it out. But am I gonna like, have do I have to do it? Do I really really need to do it.
Lilliana Robinson: So there's other forces that we'll talk about that are at play that make a pull, more of a of an urge and an energy force, and it's usually related to other components of how other people perceive you or how you're in perceiving yourself.
Lilliana Robinson: So we'll get to that in a second. But, like, just know, there are ways to make pulls. The it factor in drawing. Someone in a great example is probably like
Lilliana Robinson: who remembers when the first iphone came out
Lilliana Robinson: right? So that was exciting. I was in line. I was like with it. I was. I was like it was 2,006, I think 2,007. Something like that. Yeah, I'll know. So that's the thing we were in line, right? So that's a pull. But we were all in. We were like, you know what I'm in. I want that thing. There's something cool happening here, and I want to be a part of.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's an interesting pull event that we can kind of untackling then. Yeah. But different strategies. Those are those are tools.
Lilliana Robinson: What I think I'm trying to get at here is a little deeper than that I'm trying to reach into your soul. I'm trying to get you to see that version of yourself that you want to be and get you a bit emotional about and being in pursuit of it
Lilliana Robinson: like, can you really speak to that right. Sometimes you can do it simply with an image.
Lilliana Robinson: You may not even need words to activate that emotion in someone. If you're taking the right approach to meeting them where they are. So think of like a good example. Ben is like.
Lilliana Robinson: make a list of your favorite companies, like the ones that you are loyal to meaning. I will choose you, even if you have an inadequate version of the product compared to something else I could buy.
Lilliana Robinson: Go to their home page and see what they say. and if you do that I think you'll start to connect, and you'll go. Wow! They know me way better than I thought right. Eddie. Example?
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, hell, yeah, so II owe you all some I don't have like I think, the the right one off the top of my head. But yeah, the push one is very easy. That's the cyber security one I gave so that they are literally not sleeping. They are having a terrible life. Some one of them was even on the brink of divorce, because of how hard their job was weighing on them, and they need a pro solution. Now it is push. They have someone breathing down their neck. Or I mean, I'm thinking of tactically. So another cyber security company in our last class.
Lilliana Robinson: They formed the company based on my offering them a spot in tech stars. So they like all quit their job. It was like 6 of them. They quit their jobs. When I gave them the offer they formed a new company, and by the end of the program they had
Lilliana Robinson: over $900,000 in committed contracts in revenue.
Lilliana Robinson: So I say that to say what they were solving for is true threats to companies like security issues, that's a push. So a company has a cyber security threat they have to face. They're dealing with it. They're like, Oh, no, we like had a data leak, or someone attacked us, or whatever. That's a push.
Lilliana Robinson: right? And then there's the pull of well, we haven't been attacked yet, but we know as we grow and scale, we're going to become more vulnerable. So we want to be that robust security, like secure company that is protected against threats, because that's the only we're going to keep our clients and customers safe and happy.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's the difference between push and pull from A B 2 B contacts. Does that help?
Lilliana Robinson: And that's important.
Lilliana Robinson: The dire is that hope that then most of us aren't
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. But we can. That's what I was. Gonna say.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. So the poll, remember, it's people. So Neil saying, like, we wanna be a good business. Let's go down. Even more specific. Poll is the CIO wants to or not. The CIO, the senior Vp. Wants to be CIO. They want to have that. I want a promotion. It doesn't matter actually what job they have. Whoever's the decision Maker. The allure is, if I bring this in, they're going to 10 x my contract.
Lilliana Robinson: and I will be directly incentivized to do that by achieving a higher status at my job. That's a poll. And if you guys can offer that, it's like, be the hero of your company. That decision maker will go with you or a pull. I'm spending too much money on too many employees that I don't need, and I have to train them, and there's a too high of a churn. I'd rather hire tech or solution to do this for me, but I don't know how.
Lilliana Robinson: and no one's actually done this like
Lilliana Robinson: I don't even know how this would be possible. So those are a lot of examples, for, like B Twob for us that we've seen.
Lilliana Robinson: But we have a lot more, and we'll get into it specifically with you and your business and get to the bottom of all of this. We don't have to guess right now, because I know it's natural for all of you right now. You're filling in what you think. Your forces are
Lilliana Robinson: based on what you know now, but you haven't talked to the right people yet, and you haven't done the screening process that we're going to teach you to know even who to talk to. In the first place, to fill this out effectively. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: my question is, is it possible to have
Lilliana Robinson: a product or solution
Lilliana Robinson: that is existing in all of these.
Lilliana Robinson: I will say, in data itself
Lilliana Robinson: the most potent one is almost always the problem box, and one of the hardest ones to be to even the habit of the anxiety.
Lilliana Robinson: aggregate set of jobs done that you're doing. You will have something in every box, even though it's kind of hard to fill all of them. So for a variety of people, some something that might be a portal push for someone else. And yes.
Lilliana Robinson: something that I find very interesting is you think that you're gonna get the same forces of people that are like similar demographics with things?
Lilliana Robinson: Let me go through. Yeah, one more.
Lilliana Robinson: The other ones are like in the pool.
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry. Repeat your question.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: whether people that are later on to be adoption. I'm gonna ask that that like, let's see cause I don't know, and there's no way to answer that right now and again. It's tempting to look at this and fill it in. I'm telling you
Lilliana Robinson: forget everything that you've learned about this and your customers, and what you know. Trust the process over the next week, like, Ferona said, and we will get there, I promise. How do I? Okay, here we go. So it's about finding the energy. I'll I'll go deeper on this next time we talk.
Lilliana Robinson: make sure I got the rest.
Lilliana Robinson: Let me see. Here.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm just gonna cover like one more thing, and then I'll I'll revisit all this stuff. But this is the last thing I'll close out on for now.  This might be a little hard to read.
Lilliana Robinson: but I want you all to know that what we're talking about isn't just like sunshine and rainbows, and like high level stuff, it maps to actual complex organizations at scale. And the systems in place for these organizations and how they function. So what I mean by that is
Lilliana Robinson: when you're at the first thought, it's mapped to your sales and marketing systems
Lilliana Robinson: because all of a sudden the person, whether that's on the business side that's on the consumer side. They're trying to work themselves through the stages and the inputs and the outputs of what goes into someone deciding that they actually need to hire an outside solution or build an internal solution to their problem. So when you're moving through that timeline and that value chain, you get to the point where you go from marketing to sales to customer success.
Lilliana Robinson: So at scale for your businesses. You'll text ours has this exact same value chain
Lilliana Robinson: as a company. As an investor we have 320 employees. We go from marketing and sales. Hello, founders! We're here for you. Do founder catalyst! Come to our events. And all of a sudden, hey, will you take the offer? Will you be a part of our programs and our accelerators? And then, finally, who's building the businesses? Who's actually thriving, who are creating the outcomes? We need to create a flywheel of more people wanting to be a part of our organization.
Lilliana Robinson: So you, I can take any of your companies and forecast the larger picture of down the road when you're worth a billion dollars, and how what we just talked about maps to that. So it's just language and framing that has existed from the beginning of time within organizations that we're applying in a way that allows you to better understand it, break it down into little pieces and unpack it in a scientific way.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's kind of
Lilliana Robinson: part one and I guess I'll close with this. I had a chance to before Clay passed. Finally meet him in real life, go to Harvard Business School, spend some real time with him, Bob Nesta, the other guy who wrote this book in this framework. Introduce me to him. I've known Bob for 10 years. Clay is a very humble guy
Lilliana Robinson: but you also notice he's really tall. So one thing that he does when you meet him at the time. And I he had already had multiple strokes, so he was brilliant, but he was also kind of his language was broken. But he does this thing where he gets down on one knee
Lilliana Robinson: next to you, a. As a as an act of humility. So he literally did that with me when I was there at Harvard Business School. Which is super cool. I think it's like 6 8 so that's Clay. I'll tell you about Bob next week, but that is a Jtb, d for now. So that's our little teaser intro to it.
Lilliana Robinson: Happy to answer questions, and talk a little bit more with everybody here. Did that come through for you? Okay, they're they're giving me thumbs up there alright question comment in the back.
Lilliana Robinson: but
Lilliana Robinson: I haven't studied it closely, but I am familiar with it. I've heard it.
Lilliana Robinson: I will say this. What I also like to really promote with jobs to everyone is that
Lilliana Robinson: you don't need to talk about it to anybody. It doesn't matter. Vcs don't care. Customers don't care. The only context where it matters is right here in this room. So don't go around telling you. Oh, I know jobs should be done. I'm bragging about it, or whatever cause no one cares. Have you ever seen the movie Fight Club?
Lilliana Robinson: What's the first real fight? Club?
Lilliana Robinson: Alright! Here we are, guys. We're in Fight Club, all right. So you know our little secret sauce. This is what we talk about. Everyone thinks that I'm like Mister Jobs to be done because I can't stop talking about it. But only in this context am I accusive about it? Because everywhere else in my life I'm just living it.
Lilliana Robinson: And I'm asking people questions. They go dang who like, who are you like? Are you a lawyer like? Are you a detective like they're trying to figure out who I am, because I ask weird questions to people sometimes, and I'm very curious. But that's who you will all be. So just be careful, because of great power comes great responsibility.
Lilliana Robinson: You can have very awkward relationships and times with family members and significant others. When you ask too many questions and deal with it too close to home with what's really going on. So just just be mindful that, like knowing, this is hard to unknow it.
Lilliana Robinson: So once you start to see more. And you ask these types of questions. It's a superpower, but it's one you have to apply with mindfulness. But it's super cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, how many concurrent contracts would be? Sort of.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, yeah, I love that question. I don't know if I've been asked that in a while. So the question was, how do we compare this with lean, startup methodology?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? So lean, startup methodology is awesome and super valid, mostly the part where it has fallen apart for me as someone who practice it from the moment it became popular, was the assumptive notions of the customer discovery process.
Lilliana Robinson: which is still pervasive across startup accelerators, including most tech stars programs. So what you'll see is, most people like to think that they understand
Lilliana Robinson: by having a conversation with someone. They understand the insights, but they haven't been trained or given the language to fully unpack what's actually going on and those causal components. So it gets a little heady intellectual nerdy. It almost feels like we're thinking too much and too hard about it, based on how we're talking. But I promise you, if you trust the process and come out the other end, you'll have better insights.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, I like most of the lean startup methodology. I think we're fall short, is at the early stage demand side sale validation phase. Oh, yeah, everything. Yeah, it works. It wouldn't be popular if it didn't work. Cause then people would be like this is snake oil. It's not snake oil. It's real. The problem is that there's survivorship bias. So people who guess at what the problem is based on the surveys and interviews that they do.
Lilliana Robinson: some of them succeed and they go. This is what I did, therefore you can do it, and it'll work.
Lilliana Robinson: But if you actually understand the stories of the people who succeed, you realize that they either didn't tell you that they understood it to this level, or they didn't realize that they had these insights, even though they were there. So you can do jobs to be done on the entrepreneurs.
Lilliana Robinson: which is what I get to do with all of you.
Lilliana Robinson: And then, now that I see the pattern of success, we have a theory of success for our investment pieces, which is, find founders
Lilliana Robinson: who
Lilliana Robinson: gravitate towards this approach to understanding their customers, and by finding all of you
Lilliana Robinson: all of a sudden we can double down on your willingness to understand your customers better. And then we're trusting that you all can figure out a lot of the other things, cause we're not good at most things. But we are very good. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I've been around block of free time. That's true.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, you mentioned bias.
our mouse surface
Lilliana Robinson: people about service, and they don't interviews.
Lilliana Robinson: There's also inevitability. How do you move that that's been challenging
Lilliana Robinson: or like community? How do you mitigate bias?
You're doing it here. Everyone's home up there. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: you have any tips on them. We'll teach you next week.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep, we'll do it. Live. We'll do a real one in this room together. We'll also have you listen to a bunch of examples of it, and we'll join you in the conversations with your own customers and give you feedback as you go on, how you're doing and how well of
Lilliana Robinson: you know how well you're removing bias as you're unpacking the insights and having those conversations with it we got. And so a little bit about
Lilliana Robinson: you know, like insights like this that don't have to do necessarily with examining products, perhaps, and realizing there's not much to explain.
Other things don't necessarily relate like
Lilliana Robinson: this is the verdict.
Lilliana Robinson: 100%. Yeah, that. So you create all types of pivots. I'll give you an example that doesn't exist in any of my lecture notes, but it's a really good one that I know. Bob actually worked on himself personally. So
Lilliana Robinson: you all have heard of Nyquil? Right? So what does Nyquil do?
Lilliana Robinson: It's it's it's it's it's cough medicine that also helps you sleep right.
Lilliana Robinson: So that was their product.
Lilliana Robinson: But then this other product came out, called ze crew. What does z equal do compared to Nyquil? It just helps you sleep. You're not sick
Lilliana Robinson: right? And there's another product that came out, called Dayquil. That's like you don't go to sleep, but you're sick
Lilliana Robinson: right? So you need. The costs are up. So they didn't start off with all 3 products. They started off with one
Lilliana Robinson: Nyquil, and what they realized is that people were hiring Nyquil to do other jobs inadequately, because I'm like, Wait.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm not sick, but I want to sleep. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: and then there'll be people like, well, I'm not. I don't wanna sleep. But I'm sick. Okay. So it seems obvious to us now. But just so, you know, when they came out with the product, they didn't have all 3 of those they had to do this process. Bob had to work with them to do jobs to be done, to go. What are other people hiring this for.
Lilliana Robinson: And all of a sudden they created 3 separate products for those jobs.
Lilliana Robinson: So you all probably have a similar opportunity over time. As you scale and grow to differentiate some of your offerings for different segments of customers that you want to sold?
Lilliana Robinson: Does that answer your question? Okay, are there values around jobs to be done like scrum has like 10
Lilliana Robinson: like one of them is, there's no such thing. Yes, there's something similar. Yeah, there's a bunch, and I'll give them to you because I can totally nerd out on this forever. So buy me a beer, and I'll go for 100. But one is that nothing is random.
Lilliana Robinson: nothing is random. That's one of my favorite ones from John says nothing is random, so the name of the book from play, competing against luck. Think about what those 3 words mean, competing against luck. When we talk about entrepreneurship and startup self. We talk about luck.
Lilliana Robinson: Luck. I think, Seneca said, this is where preparation and opportunity meet, but the notion of competing against luck is most of us. When we talk about our success, we kind of shrug our shoulders. I was lucky.
Lilliana Robinson: What do you mean by lucky, what went into this supposed luck that you experienced? Were you ready to seize the moment. Were you aware enough to be able to say yes to an opportunity when it presented itself? What stars align that enabled you to have this luck that we claim happened.
Lilliana Robinson: So when he says, competing against luck, it's let's ask more questions and just leave things to chance that we just don't understand. because it requires a lot of work to understand.
Lilliana Robinson: So our charge to all of you is to do the work with us, to actually understand what's going on, rather than hoping for the best by casting a wide net with sales, marketing, advertising, and whatever, and thinking that it'll work just because we keep slamming resources and venture capital dollars towards the problem.
Lilliana Robinson: We can do much better than, and if we do that you can raise
Lilliana Robinson: more money
Lilliana Robinson: on better terms with more confidence at how you're going to spend the money is actually going to work, and you don't need Vcs to save you on the demand side understanding of your business.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright cool. We're way over time. But thank you. Guys.
Lilliana Robinson: you guys are all gonna go over. We're gonna meet you there to be happy hour. The address is in the calendar. Invite. The Chicago founders are waiting to meet you.
Lilliana Robinson: so see y'all next week everybody here but
Patricia Autran: thank you.